---
layout: post
title:  "2015 - Year In Review"
date:   2016-01-01 23:55:00 -0500
categories: 2015 
---

The goal of 2015 was to improve the application stability, increase scalability, add new features/enhancements, onboard new desks & users whilst growing the team of 4 developers to a team of 8 developers and 2 business analysts.


#### Start of Year 2015
* *Unstable Application:* The components of our three tier application had bugs. Restarting the server was a by-product of fixing the issues and every restart would cause a 10 minute system downtime. 
* *Unscalable Application:* The application had about 100 total users, out of which 40 users could be online at the same time. Adding more users strained the components and affected performance. We wanted to scale upto 500 or more total users out of which 250 users, who could be online at the same time.
* *Constant Fire Drills:* Devs would walk in the office and immediately tackle the slew of production issues. It was common to be called in the middle of the night by concerned APAC/EMEA users.
* *Low Morale:* Long hours coupled with our focus spent on support and bug-fixes and less on new development led to lower overall team morale.
* *Small Team:* The budget is allowing us to grow the team inorder to generate business revenue.  
* *Maybe Agile:* We thought what we were agile, but we were ad-hoc. 

#### End of Year 2015
* *Stable Application:* We moved to a mature job control system for scheduling and monitoring our processes and thus be ahead of any problems that arise. We re-architected the server and had only 2 incidents in the last quarter that caused a system interruption, which was a major feat. Also, the number of errors in our system went from 10,000/day to at most 100/day. 
* *Mostly Scalable Application:* The application grew to accomodate 250 total users, out of which 100 users could be online at the same time.
* *Sense of Direction:* We had a clear understanding of what management's goals and business' alignment. This helped identify our priorities.
* *Large Team:* We grew to 6 developers, who focused on features\enhancements\bug-fixes prioritized by the business and 2 business analysts, who were in charge of giving demos, helping users and understanding business requirements. Developers took turns responding to production support issues raised.
* *More Agile:* We added structure to our release process by defining the length of each sprint, identifying capacity, allocating work and actively maintaining our backlog. 


It helped having great business sponsors, understanding managers, supportive coworkers and a good coach. However, I strongly recommend _**daily meditation and exercise.**_

